---
title: "Weekly Writeup #1 - Getting Started"
date: 2020-05-18T07:28:00+01:00
description: "This is my weekly writeup: a braindump I write every Sunday about the things I'm doing, thinking, reading, etc. (Note: this was written more than a full week before I first had any sort of proper implementation for this site sorted, and I still didn't know what I wanted.)"
---

# Systems, and thinking about thinking

## Digital Gardens

I'm really interested in the experiments that are taking place in this space. I discovered Roam Research a few weeks ago, and I have been venturing down this rabbit hole of knowledge management ever since. I think it's important that, if I am to use a KMS such as roam, then I need to be making regular use of it. This is my main motivation behind creating a digital garden. The problem is that there are so many different examples¹ that I'm finding it very difficult to figure out what I want. 

## Design

I'm **very** inspired by [Gwern Branwen's site](https://www.gwern.net/) of, what I call, 'semi-stable long-term essays'. They are linear, coherent, and well structured trains of thought (quite contrary to what's trendy right now). They are well researched and densely linked, but mostly to the outside world. I love the way he handles footnotes and external links though: Footnotes are displayed to the left and right of the body text (if there is space), and when hovering on an external link, an abstract for that links content appears. If you haven't seen his site already, please do have a look.

On the other hand, I enjoy [Jonathan Borichevskiys site](https://jborichevskiy.com/about/). His takes a more relaxed, blog-like structure. Still densely linked, but more to other pages within the garden. I like to think that each post is a more formal writeup of some ideas stored and generated by his notes. 

Moving forward, I think I'd like to create a garden such as *Jonathan's* (in fact, his weekly patch-notes are the main motivation for these writeups!), and implement *gwern* style footnotes and external links. 

## Implementation

Saying all that, I'm currently writing this on notion. Setting up with site has been an absolute pain in the arse. I'm using Gridsome to generate a static site and having trouble with styles persisting between templates. If anyone thinks they could help please take a look at the [issue I raised on github](https://github.com/gridsome/gridsome/issues/1174). I know that most people in this space use GatsbyJS, which is powered by React as opposed to Vue. I also considered Hugo at the start but it didn't feel like it offered the customisation I want, and I'd like to get a bit better with using Vue for an upcoming project.

Despite the problems, I felt it was more important to get started with writing, so I can figure out sooner if this is beneficial to me or a waste of time.

# Pedestrianisation

I live in York, UK. The City of York Council have just announced an extra £500k funding towards walking and cycling infrastructure. I've been thinking about pedestrianising Micklegate Bar, which will improve the setting for the historic building, provide outdoor seating for local businesses, and simplify the junction that Micklegate joins with, giving space for its possible transformation into a CYCLOPS Junction. I have drafted a letter to to some of the council members representing that ward, and plan to send letters to other local representatives. Temporary pedestrianisation can be trialled now with just a few plastic barriers and a possible restaging of the traffic signals.

# Reading, watching, listening.

## Podcasts

[Venture Stories: Creating Tools For Networked Thought with Conor White-Sullivan of Roam Research](https://www.spreaker.com/user/10197011/creating-tools-for-networked-thought-wit?utm_medium=widget&utm_source=user%3A10197011&utm_term=episode_title)

[Making Sense #201 with Yuval Noah Harari](https://podcasts.google.com/feed/aHR0cDovL3dha2luZ3VwLmxpYnN5bi5jb20vcnNz/episode/NWE5YmZiMmUtOWNjYy00ZDE2LTkxOTYtNTNlNTIxZmI1OWUw?hl=en-GB&ved=2ahUKEwiJptPC77zpAhXUPsAKHVHCAgsQieUEegQIAhAI&ep=6)

## Books
Not made much progress on any books this week. Checkout my goodreads for current reads.

## Articles
Been thinking about goal setting and team jelling, so I've read a summary of *Principles* by *Ray Dalio.*

## Watching
[*Does contact tracing necessarily sacrifice privacy? (via Nicky Case)* by *3Blue1Brown*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D__UaR5MQao)